
since c++11, c99

# `<cstdint>` 与 `<stdint.h>`

`(u)int<xx>_t`，xx: 8, 16, 32, 64

`(u)intmax_t`

`(u)int_least<xx>_t`

`(u)int_fast<xx>_t`

`(u)intptr_t`

# `<cinttypes>` 与 `<inttypes.h>`

用于 printf，scanf 的宏。

#

POSIX Standard: 2.6 Primitive System Data Types <sys/types.h>
POSIX Standard: 2.10 Symbolic Constants         <unistd.h>
ISO C99: 7.18 Integer types <stdint.h>
ISO C99 Standard: 7.10/5.2.4.2.1 Sizes of integer types <limits.h>
ISO C99: 7.8 Format conversion of integer types <inttypes.h>

   1     95  /usr/include/sys/types.h <<off64_t>>
             typedef __off64_t off64_t;
   2    221  /usr/include/unistd.h <<off64_t>>
             typedef __off64_t off64_t;


C99 stdint.h and inttypes.h
stdint.h 定义了各种数据类型。
inttypes.h 包含了 stdint.h；并且定义了 printf/scanf 用到的各种格式修饰符 PRIu32, zu 等等。

#include <inttypes.h>
     int64_t:  printf("%" PRId64 "\n", my_int64_t);
     uint32_t: printf("%" PRIu32 "\n", my_uint32_t);
     ??? PRIx64: to print in hexadecimal.
     %I64d

     size_t: %zu (size_t is unsigned)
     ssize_t: %zd (signed size_t)     
     pointer: %p
     off_t: printf("%jd\n", (intmax_t)x);
Suggestions in the wild usually offer up the %u conversion for off_t, which is "correct enough" as far as I can tell (both unsigned int and off_t vary identically between 64-bit and 32-bit systems).

     XXXX (wrong!) Assuming that off_t is a signed, pointer-sized int (I don't know what the precise definition is) like ptrdiff_t then you'd use PRIdPTR or PRIiPTR.
    
man inttypes.h: I think the man page discourages use of Z (uppercase) which was used by libc5. It doesn't seem to discourage z (lowercase)

With C99 the %j length modifier can also be used with the printf family of functions to print values of type int64_t and uint64_t:
This is according to printf(3) on my Linux system (the man page specifically says that j is used to indicate a conversion to an intmax_t or uintmax_t
    #include <stdint.h>
    int64_t  a = 1LL << 63;
    uint64_t b = 1ULL << 63;
    printf("a=%jd (0x%jx)\n", a, a);
    printf("b=%ju (0x%jx)\n", b, b);
Compiling this code with gcc -Wall -pedantic -std=c99 produces no warnings, and the program prints the expected output:
     a=-9223372036854775808 (0x8000000000000000)
     b=9223372036854775808 (0x8000000000000000)
You can portably use %jd to print int64_t values if you explicitly convert them to intmax_t before passing them to printf:
     printf("a=%jd\n", (intmax_t)a);
This avoids the (IMHO) ugliness of the <inttypes.h> macros.
    
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    
stddef.h 定义了 size_t, ptrdiff_t, and wchar_t, the functional macro offsetof, and the constant macro NULL.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

解决 off64_t 的 如下编译问题：
          /usr/include/vhd/libvhd.h:278: error: expected ‘=’, ‘,’, ‘;’, ‘asm’ or ‘__attribute__’ before ‘vhd_position’
          /usr/include/vhd/libvhd.h:279: error: expected declaration specifiers or ‘...’ before ‘off64_t’
#include <stdint.h>
typedef __off64_t off64_t;
